we all know that an ideal shooting team
includes more than one person you want
someone to run second camera someone to
take care of camera movement someone to
set up complicating equipment and reset
shots however the all too often truth is
where a dynamic team of one this might
not come as a surprise but I'm kind of
small hauling camera equipment can be a
challenge but the second shooter is a
lightweight motion control system I can
haul it plus all the other gear I
wouldn't need to make this work in a
backpack helpful right especially for
remote shoots easy enough to take with
you anywhere you go and it's quick as in
pull it out of your pack for the first
time then up and running in five minutes
easy-peasy and it's intuitive too so the
learning curve is quick if say you need
to teach a PA how to use it and because
it's so easy to learn you can use it to
focus on the story rather than living
inside the gear with the three access
system you can get a bunch of different
shots including slides pans tilts and
even parallax type moves beyond how easy
this thing is to set up and use its
diverse it can handle the monster
cameras and a DVD little cameras look
how cute those little guy is
I recently used second shooter in our
storytelling parade film about a
nonprofit called chess for success the
nonprofit serves school-aged children in
an after-school program teaching them
chest as a means to develop important
life skills say problem solving or
strategize as a filmmaker I'm faced with
a challenge of how to represent the
story with camera movement the second
shooter with its very precise movements
are the perfect tool for this what we've
done here is replicate the same precise
camera moves over and over we then layer
the images over one another and lower
the opacity and post to produce the
decision making process represented
visually 15 pieces each with their own
strengths and weaknesses eight ponds two
nights looks Bishop's one clean all to
protect this one and because this was
controlled by the second shooter I
repeated the move perfectly time after
time without the second shooter
producing the shot would have been
impossible but beyond getting the best
story relevant footage easily and
without extra hands the second shooter
has a lot of thoughtful little details
it has a magnetic controller you can
easily switch the direction of the
control buttons and for your time-lapse
shooters it's got a built-in flashlight
and dim LED lights to help prevent like
pollution
and there you have it a whole second
shooter inside your backpack okay guys
that's not gonna work
you